---
layout: post
title: ""
author: 2023seohee
icon: star-o
tags: [news,seminar, review]
---
On March 30th, an online joint seminar was held between Legal Informatics and Forensics Science (LIFS) lab of Hallym University, Korean National Police Universtity, HM Company, Professor Floris Bex and AI-Researcher Daphne Odekerken from the AI-Police lab of Utrecht University.

The purpose of this meeting was to introduce and exchange research progress and future plans among the research labs and institutions.

During the meeting, there were discussions on potential future research that could be beneficial to the project through collaboration and research exchange among the different labs. Participants explored various topics and ideas for future research endeavors that could contribute to the project's advancement. The aim was to identify areas where interdisciplinary collaboration and knowledge sharing could lead to innovative approaches and solutions. These discussions served as a platform for brainstorming and identifying potential research directions that could enhance the project's outcomes and impact. The participants exchanged insights, expertise, and resources, fostering a collaborative environment to stimulate further research and development in the field.






AI researcher Daphne Odekerken of the National Police Lab AI gave a presentation on "Estimating Stability for Efficient Argument-based Inquiry". 











LIFS Laboratory at Hallym University is a research team that conducts studies in various fields such as AI, legal technology, digital forensics, and cybercrime. The lab consists of three professors and eight graduate students, and they share research activities, seminars, and conference information through the LIFS blog.

Their major project, "Deep Case," aims to develop an AI-based crime investigation system. They utilize natural language processing and argumentation analysis techniques to automate the analysis and review process required in crime investigations, aiming to enhance investigative efficiency and reliability.

Within the project, they are developing key technologies such as argument structure schema, automatic generation and visualization of case timelines, transformation of knowledge graphs for case relevance assessment, recommendation of similar cases, and alternative hypothesis search. Currently, they are analyzing cases of homicide and sexual violence and plan to complete the project by collecting diverse types of crime data.

In the seminar, the researchers will provide detailed explanations of the argument structure schema and semantic case recommendation technology. This will allow a comprehensive understanding of the development goals and key technologies of the AI-based crime investigation system.
