##TOPIC: CYBER SPACE AND THE THREAT TO NATIONAL SECURITY ZIMBAWEAN PERSPECTIVE

###INTRODUCTION
Cyber space is all around us. Across the world they has been an unpresented rise in the usage of Internet of things (IoTs).As a people we have reengineered the way we are doing things in our daily social, business and government interactions. This has come with a lot of dangers which are threatening to transform this extraordinary ethereal realm by powerful agents scrambling for control. The notion behind internets initial promise of a global network of sharing knowledge and communication is under attack. This paper is aimed at looking at the threats cyber space pose to the National Security outlook of Zimbabwe.

###Definition of terms:
Cyberspace- According to Miriam-Webster (1829) it is simply put as the online world of computer networks and especially the Internet.
According to Gibson (1996) ,who is believed to be the first to coin the word, cyberspace is the name of a real non-space world, which is characterized by the ability for virtual presence of, and interaction between, people through ‘icons, way points and artificial realities.
In addition cyberspace is a compound word and the origin of the first term ‘cyber’ comes from the Greek word kybernetes, which means pilot, governor, and ruler.

National security is mainly a government function of protecting its citizens, economy, nation’s boundaries, energy, state institutions etc, through the enactment of policies persued by three arms of state (legislature, judiciary and executive) with the primary objective of preserving national interests.

###Subject Analysis
In Zimbabwe access to cyber space is growing much faster than good governance over it. This then defines the threat to national security which has also been realized in much of Africa as rapid connectivity is taking place in the context of high rate of unemployment, environmental degradation, disease outbreaks, drought, poverty and hunger. To assert this, one would notice that in Zimbabwe the Cybercrime and Cyber Security Bill has only been introduced in 2017, evidently putting out how much unprepared or overtaken by events the country has been towards realization that the computer world is taking over thus putting up systems that safeguards the usage of cyber space from manipulation from either domestic or foreign threats.
A phenomenon rise to the access of information has seen citizens participation on social platforms such as facebook,twitter,instagram being the major security threats because of the freedoms associated with their usage which are in most cases not governed so any information can be posted without verification of their auethiticity.Zimbabwe has not been spared of the dissident kind of attacks as there has been a rise in social opposition political groups such Baba Jukwa on Face book around 2012,#This Flag #Tajamuka (we have rebelled).Platforms like Whatsapp, a mobile messaging service that is frequently subscribed to in a prepaid form in Zimbabwe, has been widely used as a tool to mobilize. It accounts for thirty four (34%) of all mobile data use in Zimbabwe. Face book reports 260,000 daily users, of 890,000 Zimbabweans online, but this only accounts for three % of mobile broadband usage in the country. Newsday Zimbabwe, an independent news outlet, increased its Twitter network by 30,000 followers in the past months alone. Social media mobilization is more fluid and dynamic than traditional protests, such as trade union strikes, that tend to require the building of solidarity and a common position among workers in an industry and takes a lot of planning and resources of which social media uses the common frustration denominator as there is no leader per say but instigators who just post which usually takes government by surprise as they are spontaneous making it difficult for state machinery to keep track.

According to MISA Zimbabwe (2016), the places to protest are now online with emerging trends of virtual sit-ins or cyber activists.

The main issue then comes in of how to govern the issue of cyberspace by putting up a solid legal framework without the infringement of citizens rights of freedom of expression and access to information. On the other hand, the National Security apparatus has in all the midst of debate over issues of access to information, privacy and freedom of expression has given them a huge opportunity to use the internet to their advantage by developing advanced systems in terms of gathering intelligence, surveillance and interception of communications .Zimbabwe like many  African and other Asian  countries like China have tried to block open and diverse communication but social media usage had terribly disrupted these restrictions.
Zimbabwe’s Cyber security response is very weak at the present moment hence its vulnerability to cyber crime as reported by the Reserve Bank Financial intelligence report 2015 which listed it as contributing to US1.8 billion estimated illegal proceeds generated from Cyber criminal activities annually.140 cases reported included phishing (20), credit card fraud (13), Unauthorized Access (24), Identity theft(18),Hacking (72),Telecommunication Piracy (1).Law enforcement agents in Zimbabwe are overwhelmed with Cyber crime as evidenced through the offering of US$300000 to anyone able to unmask the Facebook character Baba Jukwa which was largely due to the fact that they are, under staffed, lack proper equipment ,training and bad structures to cooperate across borders.

In conclusion Zimbabwe’s government should improve on distributed security strategy by involving scattered security networks so as to consolidate more on transparency and accountability. More-so there should be a general global consensus  that access to the cyberspace should now have some form of passport or license which I know the private and public sector might qualm over but for the defense and intelligence community it’s really a notion to interrogate taking lesson from the 9\11 attacks which represented a failure in Internet surveillance.

###REFERENCES
qz.com/africa/768868
htttp://www.techzim.co.zw/2016/05
www.rbz.co,zw/assets/cybercrime-globally-and-in-zimbabwe.pdf
MISA-Zimbabweand Digital Society Zimbabwe-2016 Computer Crime and Cyber Crime Bill: A framework for Zimbabwe
http://newsdayzimbabwe.co,zw October 2016
